All right let's look at the definition of a current here for there to be current.
We have to have charges that are moving or moving charges.
Now let's consider this section over here.
I'm going to define N a little and this is often done in a lot of books here.
This is defined as the number of charges
per unit volume.
They call this the charge density.
It's kind of like a density but it's not mass density It's charge density.
So imagine each one of these are kind of either electrons or doesn't matter.
It could be positive charges.
Let's just set them up as electrons for example.
OK.
And this material here has a particular charge density.
So what if I wanted to look at a certain section a certain section of material that has a cross section
A.
And let's consider a length here let's call it delta x.
So this material here has a certain little end which is a certain charge density.
How would I calculate the total charge here in this in this volume.
Well imagine if you wanted to know the total charge.
If I do it from just dimensional analysis I could do the number of charges
per unit volume.
Now I want to get rid of volume so I also need to multiply by the volume or volume.
Am I looking at the volume of the material involved.
Now again I need to get charge at the end which has to be in cool ohms.
So I also need to multiply need to get rid of number of charges and I need to introduce what is the
charge of each of those charges.
So what is the number of our what is the Coolum per charge.
So the way this looks like in terms of an equation now is the first term is the charge density at little
n the next term is the volume so its the volume of this particular section while its the cross section
which is a multiplied by the length rates the volume of the cylinder.
So that's delta x That's our middle term and the last term is what is the charge of each one of those
guys right.
The number of cool homes pre-charge that's simply my elementary charge.
And it could be positive or negative again let's just said it is as positive in this case.
I'm just looking for the magnitude here of the total charge.
I don't care whether it's positive or negative.
All right.
Now let's imagine in some unit time it's called the unit time delta x that all of these charges here
flow past this cross section.
Right.
I'm standing over here and I count that all of these charges in this volume will effectively move through
that cross section.
If I have moving charges I'm going to have an electric current and that electric current is I this is
the definition of the current and is basically simply looking at the total amount of charge Delta Q
or the total charge.
Q that goes by per unit time we see right away that the units of the electric current are going to be
measured and cool ohms per unit time which is seconds to put a square bracket around there to remind
me that these are the units and Esai units we call this an amp.
Sometimes you just use the short form just a just to denote a cool on second.
All right.
So we know the total amount of charge in this volume here is Q Which Ive got written over here.
What if I now say that all of these charges move past this area.
What would be the electric current in this case.
Well again if I'm just going to apply the definition of the electric current so the current Now in this
case is simply going to be how much charge goes by this amount of charge that goes by.
So its an a delta x the charge of each of those guys divided by the amount of time.
Now if we look at some of the constant terms that I can factor it out let me kind of put some brackets
here just to clean this up a little bit.
Let's look at some of the constant terms and maybe we could pull some of those out.
So and is a charge density that is a constant I go pull pull it out.
Else the charge of each electron move that outside.
Here is the cross-sectional area if I'm looking at a piece of wire for example.
Typically the cross section is more or less constant in the last term over here.
If you look at a delta x divided by Delta T delta x divided by Delta T if you remember what is the definition
of that.
That is a velocity.
All right.
That has the units of velocity.
Thats the definition of my velocity.
It kind of depends on how fast those charters are moving that makes sense right.
If the velocity is fast youre going to have more charge thats going to flow by that.
This guy's going to count.
So at the end my electric current you can ride it out from a microscopic point of view as this charge
density and the charge of each electron multiplied by the cross-sectional area and Delta X over delta
t they call this the velocity and we usually put a little D underneath the little d underneath refers
to the drift velocity they call this the drift velocity.
I'll explain this in just a second.
But overall this equation should make sense right now and we've kind of done it from a using dimensional
analysis in order to get to this final equation.
But hopefully these terms make sense right.
Clearly if you have more charges per unit volume you're going to have a larger current right.
If each of those individual charges in how I've looked at electrons but if each one would have a bigger
unit then that would also lead to a bigger current If there is a bigger cross-section.
There are more charges that are going past this cross-sectional area and the faster they move the more
current I'm going to get.
All right.
Now let's go ahead and look a little bit more closely at what this draft philosophy is.